docs/native_versioning.rst, before:

Native versioning
=================

As of version 1.1 SQLAlchemy-Continuum supports native versioning for PostgreSQL dialect.
Native versioning creates SQL triggers for all versioned models. These triggers keep track of changes made to versioned models. Compared to object based versioning, native versioning has

* Much faster than regular object based versioning
* Minimal memory footprint when used alongside `create_tables=False` and `create_models=False` configuration options.
* More cumbersome database migrations, since triggers need to be updated also.

Usage
-----

For enabling native versioning you need to set `native_versioning` configuration option as `True`.

::

    make_versioned(options={'native_versioning': True})



Schema migrations
-----------------

When making schema migrations (for example adding new columns to version tables) you need to remember to call sync_trigger in order to keep the version trigger up-to-date.

::

    from sqlalchemy_continuum.dialects.postgresql import sync_trigger


    sync_trigger(conn, 'article_version')

Commit message:

add manager option extension_schema
Allow configuration of the schema that the hstore extension was created
in, using the extension_schema manager option.
Functions and operators must be properly schema-qualified if hstore is
not in the schema search path.

docs/native_versioning.rst, after:

Native versioning
=================

As of version 1.1 SQLAlchemy-Continuum supports native versioning for PostgreSQL dialect.
Native versioning creates SQL triggers for all versioned models. These triggers keep track of changes made to versioned models. Compared to object based versioning, native versioning has

* Much faster than regular object based versioning
* Minimal memory footprint when used alongside `create_tables=False` and `create_models=False` configuration options.
* More cumbersome database migrations, since triggers need to be updated also.

Usage
-----

For enabling native versioning you need to set `native_versioning` configuration option as `True`.

::

    make_versioned(options={'native_versioning': True})

Native versioning for PostgreSQL needs the `hstore` extension.
If the extension was created in a schema that can't be found in the search path, you can configure the schema with the `extension_schema` configuration option:

::

    make_versioned(options={'native_versioning': True, 'extension_schema': 'extensions'})


Schema migrations
-----------------

When making schema migrations (for example adding new columns to version tables) you need to remember to call sync_trigger in order to keep the version trigger up-to-date.

::

    from sqlalchemy_continuum.dialects.postgresql import sync_trigger


    sync_trigger(conn, 'article_version')
